README.md, before:

# btcr-DID-method

To support the development of our DID method, we created two
command-line applications. The first application, `txid2txref` can
convert bitcoin transaction ids, or
[txids](https://bitcoin.org/en/glossary/txid), to
[txrefs](https://github.com/veleslavs/bips/blob/c83837536d6629f754ce5a88bbe245e0a615e76e/bip-XXXX-Bech32_Encoded_Transaction_Position_References.mediawiki),
and vice-versa. It uses bitcoind to verify the transactions. The second
application, `createBtcrDid`, will create a [decentralized identifier
(DID)](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/did-spec/) on the bitcoin
blockchain. It also uses bitcoind to submit the transaction needed to
create the DID.


# txid2txref

The txid2txref application is based on the [txid2bech32
app](https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/btcr-hackathon) created during
the 2017 BTCR Virtual Hackathon.

txid2txref is run as `txid2txref [txid]` and when given a valid `txid`,
will output a `txref` along with some other info. txid2txref will
communicate with an instance of bitcoind via RPC to retrieve information
about that transaction so it can create the `txref`. txid2txref can also
be run as `txid2txref [txref]` and will output info about the bitcoin
transaction referred to.

## Building txid2txref and createBtcrDid

This README assumes that you have bitcoind running somewhere, locally
or remotely. bitcoind needs to be a full node--either on mainnet or
testnet--and needs to have `—txindex` and RPC turned on.

We have developed and tested txid2txref and createBtcrDid on MacOS,
Debian and Ubuntu-based systems. The following instructions should work
with either Debian jessie or stretch. Building and running on different
systems should be pretty similar.

### Install some pre-requirements

First you need to install a basic C++ setup and several dependent
packages. Example:
```
$ sudo apt-get install make cmake gcc g++ libcurl4-openssl-dev libjsoncpp-dev libjansson-dev uuid-dev libjsonrpccpp-dev libjsonrpccpp-tools libboost-dev
$ sudo apt-get install curl wget unzip git
```

### Build and Install libbitcoinrpc

Next you need to build and install `libbitcoinrpc`. (The instructions
below on installing `libbitcoinrpc` are adapted from a draft tutorial: [Learning-Bitcoin-from-the-Command-Line](https://github.com/ChristopherA/Learning-Bitcoin-from-the-Command-Line/) from section [12.2_Accessing Bitcoind with C](https://github.com/ChristopherA/Learning-Bitcoin-from-the-Command-Line/blob/master/12_2_Accessing_Bitcoind_with_C.md).

Download [libbitcoinrpc from Github](https://github.com/gitmarek/libbitcoinrpc/). Clone it or grab a zip file, as you prefer.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/gitmarek/libbitcoinrpc.git
$ # or
$ wget https://github.com/gitmarek/libbitcoinrpc/archive/master.zip && unzip master.zip && rm master.zip
```

Before you can compile and install the package, you'll probably need to
adjust your `$PATH`, so that you can access `/sbin/ldconfig`:
```
$ export PATH="/sbin:$PATH"
```

For a debian or Ubuntu system, you'll want to adjust the `INSTALL_HEADERPATH`
and `INSTALL_LIBPATH` in the `libbitcoinrpc` `Makefile` to install to
`/usr` instead of `/usr/lib`:
```
$ cd libbitcoinrpc-master
$ vi Makefile
# edit the following two lines:
INSTALL_LIBPATH    := $(INSTALL_PREFIX)/usr/lib
INSTALL_HEADERPATH := $(INSTALL_PREFIX)/usr/include
```
(If you prefer not to sully your `/usr/lib`, the alternative is to
change your `/etc/ld.so.conf` or its dependent files appropriately ...
but for a test setup on a test machine, this is probably fine.)

Then you can compile:
```
$ make
```
If that works, you can install the package:
```
$ sudo make install
```

### Build and install libbitcoin-api-cpp

Download [libbitcoin-api-cpp from Github](https://github.com/minium/bitcoin-api-cpp/). Clone it or grab a zip file, as you prefer.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/minium/bitcoin-api-cpp.git
$ # or
$ wget https://github.com/minium/bitcoin-api-cpp/archive/master.zip && unzip master.zip && rm master.zip
```

This is a cmake-based project, so the standard process can be done here:

```
cd bitcoin-api-cpp-master
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
sudo make install
```

### Build txid2txref and createBtcrDid

If you don't already have it, download [btcr-DID-method from Github](https://github.com/dcdpr/btcr-DID-method/). Clone it or grab a zip file, as you prefer.

```
$ git clone git@github.com:dcdpr/btcr-DID-method.git
$ # or
$ wget https://github.com/dcdpr/btcr-DID-method/archive/master.zip && unzip master.zip && rm master.zip
```

This is a cmake-based project, so the standard process can be done here:

```
cd btcr-DID-method-master
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
```
#### Process interrupts on btcr-DID-method
Be sure of your working directory at all times. The install process relies on the `build` subdirectory of the package at hand.

This might fail:
```
cmake  .. 
```

I added '-DPYTHON_EXECUTABLE=${PYTHON2}', so it is going to be

```
cmake .. -DPYTHON_EXECUTABLE=${PYTHON2}
```

### Test presence txid2txref and createBtcrDid
If all goes well, you should be able to run txid2txref and
createBtcrDid.

```
$ ./src/txid2txref --help
Usage: txid2txref [options] <txid|txref|txref-ext>
[...]

> ./src/createBtcrDid --help
Usage: createBtcrDid [options] <inputXXX> <changeAddress> <private key> <fee> <ddoRef>
[...]
```

# Docker specific instructions

This command gives you the Docker container with Debian Stretch running. Be sure to substitute `myname` and `mytag`.

```
docker container run -it --name <myname>:<mytag> debian:stretch /bin/bash
```

### Install
Follow the guidelines under "Building txid2txref and createBtcrDid"

Don't use `Sudo`. In a container '`bash` CLI you are `root` by default.

#### Process interrupts on Docker
Be sure of your working directory at all times. The install process relies on the `build` subdirectory of the package at hand.

Problems that might occur:

A. Packages not found
```
apt-get install make 
->
"Unable to locate package make"
```

First try this:
```
apt-get update
```
and then try to install the packages you need.

B. Vi not found
```
root@eb347e94fec4:/libbitcoinrpc-master# vi Makefile
bash: vi: command not found
```
Next : Vi not installed? Detailed explanation: https://vitux.com/how-to-install-vim-editor-on-debian/ on how to proceed or just type:
```
apt-get install vim-tiny
vi Makefile
```

C. Cmake outdated
```
root@b4fcd12e2b03:/libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/build# cmake ..
CMake Error at CMakeLists.txt:1 (cmake_minimum_required):
  CMake 3.8 or higher is required.  You are running version 3.7.2


-- Configuring incomplete, errors occurred!
```

Install a newer version Cmake for Debian, for example via https://anglehit.com/how-to-install-the-latest-version-of-cmake-via-command-line/. Be careful to not use `Sudo`. ANd you might run into other dependencies trouble around `./bootstrap`. I needed to tweak it this way:
```
./bootstrap -- -DCMAKE_USE_OPENSSL=OFF
```

### Start again after Exit

Suppose you have succeeded so far and exited the prompt in the container and stopped container you created. To get back to where you were, type:
```
docker start -i <your_container_tag>

cd /libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/build
```
Celebrate this first step of re-iteration, but we're not there yet.

### Run with bind-mount
Bind mounts: A bind mount is a file or folder stored anywhere on the container host filesystem, mounted into a running container. The main difference a bind mount has from a volume is that since it can exist anywhere on the host filesystem, processes outside of Docker can also modify it. (from: https://4sysops.com/archives/introduction-to-docker-bind-mounts-and-volumes/)

"processes outside of Docker can also modify it" That is what we need because bitcoind Testnest3 fills the local node with blocks.

#### In a bash file
```
CONF_SRC=<your path to Testnet3 dir>; \
CONF_DST=/libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/<your Testnet3 mount dir>; \

docker run -it --name <your container name> \
  --mount type=bind,src=${CONF_SRC},dst=${CONF_DST} \
  <your imagename>:<your imagetag>
```

#### Unpackaging it in one CLI command
```
docker run -it --name <your container name> \
  --mount type=bind,src=<your path to Testnet3 dir>,dst=/libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/<your Testnet3 mount dir> \
   <your imagename>:<your imagetag>
```

For example:
```
docker run -it --name didbtcr2  --mount type=bind,src=/Users/hvancann/app-container/.bitcoin,dst=/libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/.bitcoin   didbtcr2:latest
```
Or to get the ports right in one go:
```
docker run -it -p 5000:5000 --name didbtcr  --mount type=bind,src=/Users/hvancann/app-container/.bitcoin,dst=/libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/.bitcoin   didbtcr2:latest
```

# Running txid2txref

You can ask txid2txref for help and it will show all the runtime options
available:

```
$ ./src/txid2txref --help
Usage: txid2txref [options] <txid>

 -h  --help                 Print this help
 --rpchost [rpchost or IP]  RPC host (default: 127.0.0.1)
 --rpcuser [user]           RPC user
 --rpcpassword [pass]       RPC password
 --rpcport [port]           RPC port (default: try both 8332 and 18332)
 --config [config_path]     Full pathname to bitcoin.conf (default: <homedir>/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf)
 --txoIndex [index #]       Index # for XTO within the transaction (default: 0)

<txid|txref|txref-ext>      input: can be a txid to encode, or a txref or txref-ext to decode
```

Many of the runtime options for txid2txref are for connecting to
bitcoind over RPC. There are four `--rpc*` options that you can use for
connecting to a local or remote bitcoind:

```
$ ./src/txid2txref --rpcuser bitcoinrpc --rpcpassword super-secret-passwd --rpchost 127.0.0.1 --rpcport 18332 <txid>
{...}
```

If you have bitcoind running locally, you probably have a bitcoin.conf
file with all the RPC info in there. If so, you can use it instead of
setting all of the `--rpc*` options:

```
$ # by default it will look in <homedir>/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf
$ ./src/txid2txref <txid>
{...}

$ # or you can use a different location
$ ./src/txid2txref --config /tmp/bitcoin.conf <txid>
{...}
```

When given a txid, txid2txref will connect to bitcoind to verify it is a
valid txid and, if found, gather some info about it. Then it will output
some JSON with details about that transaction, and the txref.

```
$ ./src/txid2txref f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7521234
Error: transaction f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7521234 not found.

$ ./src/txid2txref f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107
{
  "txid": "f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107",
  "txref": "txtest1:xyv2-xzpq-q9wa-p7t",
  "network": "test",
  "block-height": "1152194",
  "transaction-position": "1",
  "txo-index": "0",
  "query-string": "f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107"
}
```

txid2txref can also output an extended txref if the --txoIndex flag is given.

```
$ ./src/txid2txref f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107 | jq '{txref}'
{
  "txref": "txtest1:xyv2-xzpq-q9wa-p7t"
}

$ ./src/txid2txref --txoIndex 0 f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107 | jq '{txref}'
{
  "txref": "txtest1:8yv2-xzpq-qqqq-9yce-nk"
}

$ ./src/txid2txref --txoIndex 1 f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107 | jq '{txref}'
{
  "txref": "txtest1:8yv2-xzpq-qpqq-8x3w-2w"
}
```

Alternately, instead of a txid, txid2txref can be given a txref to
decode and look up the transaction info in bitcoind:

```
$ ./src/txid2txref txtest1:8yv2-xzpq-qpqq-8x3w-2w
{
    "txid": "f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107",
    "txref": "txtest1:8yv2-xzpq-qpqq-8x3w-2w",
    "network": "test",
    "block-height": "1152194",
    "transaction-position": "1",
    "txo-index": "1",
    "query-string": "txtest1:8yv2-xzpq-qpqq-8x3w-2w"
}
```

## Command txid2txref to run in Docker
We use the same example as above: txid = f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107

### Using the --config switch of txid2txref
This the relevant part of your `bitcoin.conf` file:
```
rpcuser=<your user>
rpcpassword=<your password>

rpcallowip=127.0.0.1

testnet=1

txindex=1

rpcbind=127.0.0.1
rpcport=18333
```

Go to the build directory and exute 
```
cd /libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/build #this path results from the main install instructions

./src/txid2txref --config <the full path to your bind mount (see above)>/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107
```

### Using the direct switches of txid2txref

cd /libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/build

From the `build` directory of your `btcr-DID-method-master`:

```
./src/txid2txref --rpchost=127.0.0.1 --rpcuser=<your username> --rpcpassword=<your password> --rpcport=18333 --config /libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/build/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf  f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107
```

# Running createBtcrDid

You can ask createBtcrDid for help, and it will show all the runtime
options available:

```
> ./createBtcrDid --help
Usage: createBtcrDid [options] <inputXXX> <changeAddress> <private key> <fee> <ddoRef>

 -h  --help                 Print this help
 --rpchost [rpchost or IP]  RPC host (default: 127.0.0.1)
 --rpcuser [user]           RPC user
 --rpcpassword [pass]       RPC password
 --rpcport [port]           RPC port (default: try both 8332 and 18332)
 --config [config_path]     Full pathname to bitcoin.conf (default: <homedir>/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf)
 --txoIndex [index]         Index # of which TXO to use from the input transaction (default: 0)

<inputXXX>      input: (bitcoin address, txid, txref, or txref-ext) needs at least slightly more unspent BTCs than your offered fee
<outputAddress> output bitcoin address: will receive transaction change and be the basis for your DID
<private key>   private key in base58 (wallet import format)
<fee>           fee you are willing to pay (suggestion: >0.001 BTC)
<ddoRef>        reference to a DDO you want as part of your DID (optional)
```

Many of the runtime options for createBtcrDid are for connecting to
bitcoind over RPC. There are four `--rpc*` options that you can use for
connecting to a local or remote bitcoind:

```
$ ./src/createBtcrDid --rpcuser bitcoinrpc --rpcpassword super-secret-passwd --rpchost 127.0.0.1 --rpcport 18332 ...
```

If you have bitcoind running locally, you probably have a bitcoin.conf
file with all the RPC info in there. If so, you can use it instead of
setting all of the `--rpc*` options:

```
$ # by default it will look in <homedir>/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf
$ ./src/createBtcrDid ...
{...}

$ # or you can use a different location
$ ./src/createBtcrDid --config /tmp/bitcoin.conf ...
{...}
```

createBtcrDid has many required positional parameters:

#### inputXXX
This is the input transaction--where you need to have at least slightly
more unspent BTCs than your offered fee (see below). You can refer to
this transaction in many ways: a bitcoin address (plus txoIndex, given
with `--txoIndex` parameter); a txid (plus txoIndex); a txref (plus
txoIndex), or a txref-ext.

#### outputAddress
This is the output bitcoin address. It will receive transaction change and be the basis for your DID.

#### private key
private key in base58 (wallet import format)

#### fee
fee you are willing to pay (suggestion: >0.001 BTC)

#### ddoRef
reference to a DDO you want as part of your DID. Usually a URL to a
JSON-LD document. (optional)

## Example of how to use createBtcrDid

Some prerequisites:
- you need a running instance of bitcoind, with the option "txindex=1"
enabled so you have full transaction history.
- you need to have some BTC, either on the main or
test blockchain (whatever your bitcoind is running)
- you need the txid of a transaction with your BTC, and the index of the
TXO you want to use (if it is other than 0)
- if you want your DID to have a reference to an external document with
more info (a DDO) then make sure you have a URL for where it can be
retrieved from.

Make sure you know the txid and how much you have to spend from it. You can use
bitcoin-cli to check:

```
$ bitcoin-cli listunspent | jq -r '.[] | { txid: .txid, address: .address, vout: .vout, amount: .amount }'
{
  "txid": "79d864cc59b0c3ac240fc78e5a79edb13182b88c9ed1c60526eda6657a5d5e9e",
  "address": "mvwGweRzRDwydpJfW1uqWJN4iZvNBZ9zZ4",
  "vout": 0,
  "amount": 0.02
}
```

If you want to start using txrefs right away, you can use txid2txref to
convert your txid:

```
$ ./src/txid2txref --txoIndex 0 79d864cc59b0c3ac240fc78e5a79edb13182b88c9ed1c60526eda6657a5d5e9e | jq '{txref}'
{
  "txref": "txtest1:8vn9-0z8q-qqqq-u6ff-m0"
}
```

You need to decide how much you want to spend to create your DID--this
is the transaction fee. You probably want this as low as possible. For
the testnet, you can probably get by with a fee of 0.0005 BTC for now.

Now you need a new address for your transaction change to go to. This
will also be the basis for your DID. You can make one with bitcoin-cli:

```
$ bitcoin-cli getrawchangeaddress
myxJdFGMAnX4SiBg2hTKsZRr8ReE5irjS5
```

Finally, you need the private key for the address of your original
transaction. You can get it from bitcoin-cli:

```
$ bitcoin-cli dumpprivkey mvwGweRzRDwydpJfW1uqWJN4iZvNBZ9zZ4
randomrandomrandomrandomrandomrandomrandomrandomrand
```

Putting this all together, now you are ready to run createBtcrDid:

```
./createBtcrDid \
79d864cc59b0c3ac240fc78e5a79edb13182b88c9ed1c60526eda6657a5d5e9e \
myxJdFGMAnX4SiBg2hTKsZRr8ReE5irjS5 \
randomrandomrandomrandomrandomrandomrandomrandomrand \
0.0005 \
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/danpape/self/master/ddo-ext.jsonld

Transaction submitted. Result txid: cd94e5a4a1aa1b19988faed93d31d50195b75390130304358369a63e8caec5ef

```

Using a block explorer, you can check that it looks good. For instance,
you can look up this example transaction on
[blockcypher.com](https://live.blockcypher.com/btc-testnet/tx/cd94e5a4a1aa1b19988faed93d31d50195b75390130304358369a63e8caec5ef/)
or [smartbit.com.au](https://testnet.smartbit.com.au/tx/cd94e5a4a1aa1b19988faed93d31d50195b75390130304358369a63e8caec5ef)
and can see that 0.0005 BTC was spent, from
`mvwGweRzRDwydpJfW1uqWJN4iZvNBZ9zZ4` to
`myxJdFGMAnX4SiBg2hTKsZRr8ReE5irjS5`. There is also an extra TXO there,
with 0.0 BTC which contains the DDO linked from github.

Commit message:

added text for option 'skip build docker image yourself'

README.md, after:

# btcr-DID-method

To support the development of our DID method, we created two
command-line applications. The first application, `txid2txref` can
convert bitcoin transaction ids, or
[txids](https://bitcoin.org/en/glossary/txid), to
[txrefs](https://github.com/veleslavs/bips/blob/c83837536d6629f754ce5a88bbe245e0a615e76e/bip-XXXX-Bech32_Encoded_Transaction_Position_References.mediawiki),
and vice-versa. It uses bitcoind to verify the transactions. The second
application, `createBtcrDid`, will create a [decentralized identifier
(DID)](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/did-spec/) on the bitcoin
blockchain. It also uses bitcoind to submit the transaction needed to
create the DID.


# txid2txref

The txid2txref application is based on the [txid2bech32
app](https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/btcr-hackathon) created during
the 2017 BTCR Virtual Hackathon.

txid2txref is run as `txid2txref [txid]` and when given a valid `txid`,
will output a `txref` along with some other info. txid2txref will
communicate with an instance of bitcoind via RPC to retrieve information
about that transaction so it can create the `txref`. txid2txref can also
be run as `txid2txref [txref]` and will output info about the bitcoin
transaction referred to.

## Building txid2txref and createBtcrDid

This README assumes that you have bitcoind running somewhere, locally
or remotely. bitcoind needs to be a full node--either on mainnet or
testnet--and needs to have `—txindex` and RPC turned on.

We have developed and tested txid2txref and createBtcrDid on MacOS,
Debian and Ubuntu-based systems. The following instructions should work
with either Debian jessie or stretch. Building and running on different
systems should be pretty similar.

### Install some pre-requirements

First you need to install a basic C++ setup and several dependent
packages. Example:
```
$ sudo apt-get install make cmake gcc g++ libcurl4-openssl-dev libjsoncpp-dev libjansson-dev uuid-dev libjsonrpccpp-dev libjsonrpccpp-tools libboost-dev
$ sudo apt-get install curl wget unzip git
```

### Build and Install libbitcoinrpc

Next you need to build and install `libbitcoinrpc`. (The instructions
below on installing `libbitcoinrpc` are adapted from a draft tutorial: [Learning-Bitcoin-from-the-Command-Line](https://github.com/ChristopherA/Learning-Bitcoin-from-the-Command-Line/) from section [12.2_Accessing Bitcoind with C](https://github.com/ChristopherA/Learning-Bitcoin-from-the-Command-Line/blob/master/12_2_Accessing_Bitcoind_with_C.md).

Download [libbitcoinrpc from Github](https://github.com/gitmarek/libbitcoinrpc/). Clone it or grab a zip file, as you prefer.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/gitmarek/libbitcoinrpc.git
$ # or
$ wget https://github.com/gitmarek/libbitcoinrpc/archive/master.zip && unzip master.zip && rm master.zip
```

Before you can compile and install the package, you'll probably need to
adjust your `$PATH`, so that you can access `/sbin/ldconfig`:
```
$ export PATH="/sbin:$PATH"
```

For a debian or Ubuntu system, you'll want to adjust the `INSTALL_HEADERPATH`
and `INSTALL_LIBPATH` in the `libbitcoinrpc` `Makefile` to install to
`/usr` instead of `/usr/lib`:
```
$ cd libbitcoinrpc-master
$ vi Makefile
# edit the following two lines:
INSTALL_LIBPATH    := $(INSTALL_PREFIX)/usr/lib
INSTALL_HEADERPATH := $(INSTALL_PREFIX)/usr/include
```
(If you prefer not to sully your `/usr/lib`, the alternative is to
change your `/etc/ld.so.conf` or its dependent files appropriately ...
but for a test setup on a test machine, this is probably fine.)

Then you can compile:
```
$ make
```
If that works, you can install the package:
```
$ sudo make install
```

### Build and install libbitcoin-api-cpp

Download [libbitcoin-api-cpp from Github](https://github.com/minium/bitcoin-api-cpp/). Clone it or grab a zip file, as you prefer.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/minium/bitcoin-api-cpp.git
$ # or
$ wget https://github.com/minium/bitcoin-api-cpp/archive/master.zip && unzip master.zip && rm master.zip
```

This is a cmake-based project, so the standard process can be done here:

```
cd bitcoin-api-cpp-master
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
sudo make install
```

### Build txid2txref and createBtcrDid

If you don't already have it, download [btcr-DID-method from Github](https://github.com/dcdpr/btcr-DID-method/). Clone it or grab a zip file, as you prefer.

```
$ git clone git@github.com:dcdpr/btcr-DID-method.git
$ # or
$ wget https://github.com/dcdpr/btcr-DID-method/archive/master.zip && unzip master.zip && rm master.zip
```

This is a cmake-based project, so the standard process can be done here:

```
cd btcr-DID-method-master
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
```
#### Process interrupts on btcr-DID-method
Be sure of your working directory at all times. The install process relies on the `build` subdirectory of the package at hand.

This might fail:
```
cmake  .. 
```

I added '-DPYTHON_EXECUTABLE=${PYTHON2}', so it is going to be

```
cmake .. -DPYTHON_EXECUTABLE=${PYTHON2}
```

### Test presence txid2txref and createBtcrDid
If all goes well, you should be able to run txid2txref and
createBtcrDid.

```
$ ./src/txid2txref --help
Usage: txid2txref [options] <txid|txref|txref-ext>
[...]

> ./src/createBtcrDid --help
Usage: createBtcrDid [options] <inputXXX> <changeAddress> <private key> <fee> <ddoRef>
[...]
```

# Docker specific instructions

To build your own Docker image use this section. If you want to use the resulting Docker image, head over to [Unpackaging it in one CLI command](https://github.com/hvancann/btcr-DID-2#Unpackaging it in one CLI command)below.

This command gives you the Docker container with Debian Stretch running. Be sure to substitute `myname` and `mytag`.

```
docker container run -it --name <myname>:<mytag> debian:stretch /bin/bash
```

### Install
Follow the guidelines under "Building txid2txref and createBtcrDid"

Don't use `Sudo`. In a container '`bash` CLI you are `root` by default.

#### Process interrupts on Docker
Be sure of your working directory at all times. The install process relies on the `build` subdirectory of the package at hand.

Problems that might occur:

A. Packages not found
```
apt-get install make 
->
"Unable to locate package make"
```

First try this:
```
apt-get update
```
and then try to install the packages you need.

B. Vi not found
```
root@eb347e94fec4:/libbitcoinrpc-master# vi Makefile
bash: vi: command not found
```
Next : Vi not installed? Detailed explanation: https://vitux.com/how-to-install-vim-editor-on-debian/ on how to proceed or just type:
```
apt-get install vim-tiny
vi Makefile
```

C. Cmake outdated
```
root@b4fcd12e2b03:/libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/build# cmake ..
CMake Error at CMakeLists.txt:1 (cmake_minimum_required):
  CMake 3.8 or higher is required.  You are running version 3.7.2


-- Configuring incomplete, errors occurred!
```

Install a newer version Cmake for Debian, for example via https://anglehit.com/how-to-install-the-latest-version-of-cmake-via-command-line/. Be careful to not use `Sudo`. ANd you might run into other dependencies trouble around `./bootstrap`. I needed to tweak it this way:
```
./bootstrap -- -DCMAKE_USE_OPENSSL=OFF
```

### Start again after Exit

Suppose you have succeeded so far and exited the prompt in the container and stopped container you created. To get back to where you were, type:
```
docker start -i <your_container_tag>

cd /libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/build
```
Celebrate this first step of re-iteration, but we're not there yet.

### Run with bind-mount
Bind mounts: A bind mount is a file or folder stored anywhere on the container host filesystem, mounted into a running container. The main difference a bind mount has from a volume is that since it can exist anywhere on the host filesystem, processes outside of Docker can also modify it. (from: https://4sysops.com/archives/introduction-to-docker-bind-mounts-and-volumes/)

"processes outside of Docker can also modify it" That is what we need because bitcoind Testnest3 fills the local node with blocks.

#### In a bash file
```
CONF_SRC=<your path to Testnet3 dir>; \
CONF_DST=/libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/<your Testnet3 mount dir>; \

docker run -it --name <your container name> \
  --mount type=bind,src=${CONF_SRC},dst=${CONF_DST} \
  <your imagename>:<your imagetag>
```

#### Unpackaging it in one CLI command
```
docker run -it --name <your container name> \
  --mount type=bind,src=<your path to Testnet3 dir>,dst=/libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/<your Testnet3 mount dir> \
   <your imagename>:<your imagetag>
```

For example:
```
docker run -it --name didbtcr2  --mount type=bind,src=/Users/hvancann/app-container/.bitcoin,dst=/libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/.bitcoin   didbtcr2:latest
```
Or to get the ports right in one go:
```
docker run -it -p 5000:5000 --name didbtcr  --mount type=bind,src=/Users/hvancann/app-container/.bitcoin,dst=/libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/.bitcoin   didbtcr2:latest
```

# Running txid2txref

You can ask txid2txref for help and it will show all the runtime options
available:

```
$ ./src/txid2txref --help
Usage: txid2txref [options] <txid>

 -h  --help                 Print this help
 --rpchost [rpchost or IP]  RPC host (default: 127.0.0.1)
 --rpcuser [user]           RPC user
 --rpcpassword [pass]       RPC password
 --rpcport [port]           RPC port (default: try both 8332 and 18332)
 --config [config_path]     Full pathname to bitcoin.conf (default: <homedir>/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf)
 --txoIndex [index #]       Index # for XTO within the transaction (default: 0)

<txid|txref|txref-ext>      input: can be a txid to encode, or a txref or txref-ext to decode
```

Many of the runtime options for txid2txref are for connecting to
bitcoind over RPC. There are four `--rpc*` options that you can use for
connecting to a local or remote bitcoind:

```
$ ./src/txid2txref --rpcuser bitcoinrpc --rpcpassword super-secret-passwd --rpchost 127.0.0.1 --rpcport 18332 <txid>
{...}
```

If you have bitcoind running locally, you probably have a bitcoin.conf
file with all the RPC info in there. If so, you can use it instead of
setting all of the `--rpc*` options:

```
$ # by default it will look in <homedir>/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf
$ ./src/txid2txref <txid>
{...}

$ # or you can use a different location
$ ./src/txid2txref --config /tmp/bitcoin.conf <txid>
{...}
```

When given a txid, txid2txref will connect to bitcoind to verify it is a
valid txid and, if found, gather some info about it. Then it will output
some JSON with details about that transaction, and the txref.

```
$ ./src/txid2txref f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7521234
Error: transaction f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7521234 not found.

$ ./src/txid2txref f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107
{
  "txid": "f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107",
  "txref": "txtest1:xyv2-xzpq-q9wa-p7t",
  "network": "test",
  "block-height": "1152194",
  "transaction-position": "1",
  "txo-index": "0",
  "query-string": "f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107"
}
```

txid2txref can also output an extended txref if the --txoIndex flag is given.

```
$ ./src/txid2txref f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107 | jq '{txref}'
{
  "txref": "txtest1:xyv2-xzpq-q9wa-p7t"
}

$ ./src/txid2txref --txoIndex 0 f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107 | jq '{txref}'
{
  "txref": "txtest1:8yv2-xzpq-qqqq-9yce-nk"
}

$ ./src/txid2txref --txoIndex 1 f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107 | jq '{txref}'
{
  "txref": "txtest1:8yv2-xzpq-qpqq-8x3w-2w"
}
```

Alternately, instead of a txid, txid2txref can be given a txref to
decode and look up the transaction info in bitcoind:

```
$ ./src/txid2txref txtest1:8yv2-xzpq-qpqq-8x3w-2w
{
    "txid": "f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107",
    "txref": "txtest1:8yv2-xzpq-qpqq-8x3w-2w",
    "network": "test",
    "block-height": "1152194",
    "transaction-position": "1",
    "txo-index": "1",
    "query-string": "txtest1:8yv2-xzpq-qpqq-8x3w-2w"
}
```

## Command txid2txref to run in Docker
We use the same example as above: txid = f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107

### Using the --config switch of txid2txref
This the relevant part of your `bitcoin.conf` file:
```
rpcuser=<your user>
rpcpassword=<your password>

rpcallowip=127.0.0.1

testnet=1

txindex=1

rpcbind=127.0.0.1
rpcport=18333
```

Go to the build directory and exute 
```
cd /libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/build #this path results from the main install instructions

./src/txid2txref --config <the full path to your bind mount (see above)>/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107
```

### Using the direct switches of txid2txref

cd /libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/build

From the `build` directory of your `btcr-DID-method-master`:

```
./src/txid2txref --rpchost=127.0.0.1 --rpcuser=<your username> --rpcpassword=<your password> --rpcport=18333 --config /libbitcoinrpc-master/bitcoin-api-cpp-master/build/btcr-DID-method-master/build/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf  f8cdaff3ebd9e862ed5885f8975489090595abe1470397f79780ead1c7528107
```

# Running createBtcrDid

You can ask createBtcrDid for help, and it will show all the runtime
options available:

```
> ./createBtcrDid --help
Usage: createBtcrDid [options] <inputXXX> <changeAddress> <private key> <fee> <ddoRef>

 -h  --help                 Print this help
 --rpchost [rpchost or IP]  RPC host (default: 127.0.0.1)
 --rpcuser [user]           RPC user
 --rpcpassword [pass]       RPC password
 --rpcport [port]           RPC port (default: try both 8332 and 18332)
 --config [config_path]     Full pathname to bitcoin.conf (default: <homedir>/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf)
 --txoIndex [index]         Index # of which TXO to use from the input transaction (default: 0)

<inputXXX>      input: (bitcoin address, txid, txref, or txref-ext) needs at least slightly more unspent BTCs than your offered fee
<outputAddress> output bitcoin address: will receive transaction change and be the basis for your DID
<private key>   private key in base58 (wallet import format)
<fee>           fee you are willing to pay (suggestion: >0.001 BTC)
<ddoRef>        reference to a DDO you want as part of your DID (optional)
```

Many of the runtime options for createBtcrDid are for connecting to
bitcoind over RPC. There are four `--rpc*` options that you can use for
connecting to a local or remote bitcoind:

```
$ ./src/createBtcrDid --rpcuser bitcoinrpc --rpcpassword super-secret-passwd --rpchost 127.0.0.1 --rpcport 18332 ...
```

If you have bitcoind running locally, you probably have a bitcoin.conf
file with all the RPC info in there. If so, you can use it instead of
setting all of the `--rpc*` options:

```
$ # by default it will look in <homedir>/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf
$ ./src/createBtcrDid ...
{...}

$ # or you can use a different location
$ ./src/createBtcrDid --config /tmp/bitcoin.conf ...
{...}
```

createBtcrDid has many required positional parameters:

#### inputXXX
This is the input transaction--where you need to have at least slightly
more unspent BTCs than your offered fee (see below). You can refer to
this transaction in many ways: a bitcoin address (plus txoIndex, given
with `--txoIndex` parameter); a txid (plus txoIndex); a txref (plus
txoIndex), or a txref-ext.

#### outputAddress
This is the output bitcoin address. It will receive transaction change and be the basis for your DID.

#### private key
private key in base58 (wallet import format)

#### fee
fee you are willing to pay (suggestion: >0.001 BTC)

#### ddoRef
reference to a DDO you want as part of your DID. Usually a URL to a
JSON-LD document. (optional)

## Example of how to use createBtcrDid

Some prerequisites:
- you need a running instance of bitcoind, with the option "txindex=1"
enabled so you have full transaction history.
- you need to have some BTC, either on the main or
test blockchain (whatever your bitcoind is running)
- you need the txid of a transaction with your BTC, and the index of the
TXO you want to use (if it is other than 0)
- if you want your DID to have a reference to an external document with
more info (a DDO) then make sure you have a URL for where it can be
retrieved from.

Make sure you know the txid and how much you have to spend from it. You can use
bitcoin-cli to check:

```
$ bitcoin-cli listunspent | jq -r '.[] | { txid: .txid, address: .address, vout: .vout, amount: .amount }'
{
  "txid": "79d864cc59b0c3ac240fc78e5a79edb13182b88c9ed1c60526eda6657a5d5e9e",
  "address": "mvwGweRzRDwydpJfW1uqWJN4iZvNBZ9zZ4",
  "vout": 0,
  "amount": 0.02
}
```

If you want to start using txrefs right away, you can use txid2txref to
convert your txid:

```
$ ./src/txid2txref --txoIndex 0 79d864cc59b0c3ac240fc78e5a79edb13182b88c9ed1c60526eda6657a5d5e9e | jq '{txref}'
{
  "txref": "txtest1:8vn9-0z8q-qqqq-u6ff-m0"
}
```

You need to decide how much you want to spend to create your DID--this
is the transaction fee. You probably want this as low as possible. For
the testnet, you can probably get by with a fee of 0.0005 BTC for now.

Now you need a new address for your transaction change to go to. This
will also be the basis for your DID. You can make one with bitcoin-cli:

```
$ bitcoin-cli getrawchangeaddress
myxJdFGMAnX4SiBg2hTKsZRr8ReE5irjS5
```

Finally, you need the private key for the address of your original
transaction. You can get it from bitcoin-cli:

```
$ bitcoin-cli dumpprivkey mvwGweRzRDwydpJfW1uqWJN4iZvNBZ9zZ4
randomrandomrandomrandomrandomrandomrandomrandomrand
```

Putting this all together, now you are ready to run createBtcrDid:

```
./createBtcrDid \
79d864cc59b0c3ac240fc78e5a79edb13182b88c9ed1c60526eda6657a5d5e9e \
myxJdFGMAnX4SiBg2hTKsZRr8ReE5irjS5 \
randomrandomrandomrandomrandomrandomrandomrandomrand \
0.0005 \
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/danpape/self/master/ddo-ext.jsonld

Transaction submitted. Result txid: cd94e5a4a1aa1b19988faed93d31d50195b75390130304358369a63e8caec5ef

```

Using a block explorer, you can check that it looks good. For instance,
you can look up this example transaction on
[blockcypher.com](https://live.blockcypher.com/btc-testnet/tx/cd94e5a4a1aa1b19988faed93d31d50195b75390130304358369a63e8caec5ef/)
or [smartbit.com.au](https://testnet.smartbit.com.au/tx/cd94e5a4a1aa1b19988faed93d31d50195b75390130304358369a63e8caec5ef)
and can see that 0.0005 BTC was spent, from
`mvwGweRzRDwydpJfW1uqWJN4iZvNBZ9zZ4` to
`myxJdFGMAnX4SiBg2hTKsZRr8ReE5irjS5`. There is also an extra TXO there,
with 0.0 BTC which contains the DDO linked from github.
